# Overview

This half-course covers some commonly used designs and empirical research in
applied microeconomics and related fields. For Princeton students, homework and
solutions to it will be posted on Canvas. Official course description is at the
[Registrar's
website](https://registrar.princeton.edu/course-offerings/course-details?term=1244&courseid=015253).

Good empirical research has three pillars:

1. Measurement. One can't really answer a policy question (what's the effect of
   intervention A) or a science question (what's the elasticity of demand)
   without being able to measure the key quantities. Indeed, much of the
   progress in the last 20 or so years in applied micro has been due to better
   measurement---access to better and more reliable data.
2. Design. This another catch-all that just means the empirical specification
   you run is grounded in something. You don't just throw a kitchen sink of
   controls at the problem and argue unconfoundedness. Instead, identification
   exploits some economic or institutional feature of the data.
3. Inference. You have a way of assessing the reliability of your estimates.

This course has nothing to say about the most important pillar, measurement. It
will have something to say about the second pillar, though for much of the
course we'll take the empirical specification as given, and instead think
through the assumptions needed to make sense of the estimand. We'll spend much
time on getting the inference right, which is the least important pillar: a good
paper requires good measurement and good design, but not necessarily great
inference.

It is not that common that some naive way of estimating the standard errors is
off by an order of magnitude (one major exception being the question of whether
to cluster the standard errors), but there are lots of settings where the
estimates may be off by an order of magnitude if the design is off. Yet there
are many settings where naive inference may mislead, and it's important to
recognize those settings.

# Notes

I provide detailed lecture notes with references. The goal of the lecture notes
is to serve as a reference for your own later research, and as such, they aim to
be self-contained and detailed. In lectures, we won't have time to dive into all
the details, so it's a good idea to read ideally read them ahead of time, or at
least after class.

# Homework

I'll give weekly homework, which will be a mix of empirical exercises and
critical summaries of assigned readings.

# Errors

Please report typos and errors in the lecture notes by opening an issue.
